>> Ifill: FIGHTING FOR HIS
POLITICAL FUTURE, ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER NETANYAHU PLEDGES, IF
HE'S RE-ELECTED, THERE WILL BE
NO PALESTINIAN STATE, JUST HOURS
BEFORE VOTERS CAST THEIR
BALLOTS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN ILL.IF
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY:
PROSPECTS FOR PEACE IN SYRIA, AS
PRESIDENT ASSAD REJECTS A CALL
FOR TALKS TO END THE WAR TORN
NATION'S BLOODY CONFLICT.
>> Ifill: PLUS...
>> YOU DON'T REALLY GET TO LIVE
A GOOD LIFE ON THE INCOME OF A
HOME CARE WORKER.
>> Ifill: ...THE WORKERS
STRUGGLING TO KEEP HOME HEALTH
CARE AFFORDABLE FOR ELDERLY
AMERICANS.
>> SOMEONE HAS TO PAY FOR IT.
AND WHAT HAPPENS WHEN THEY CAN'T
AFFORD IT.
I THINK THAT'S OUR WORRY IS WHEN
CLIENTS CAN'T AFFORD HOME CARE
ANY MORE.
>> Ifill: THE AROSE SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET GOT ITS
WEEK OFF TO A RUNNING START
TODAY, AFTER LAST WEEK'S LOSSES.
STOCKS ROSE IN PART AS THE VALUE
OF THE DOLLAR EASED SOME FROM A
RALLY THAT'S MADE AMERICAN GOODS
PRICIER OVERSEAS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED NEARLY 230 POINTS TO
CLOSE BACK NEAR 18,000.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NEARLY 60
POINTS, AND THE S&P 500 ADDED
ALMOST 30.
>> Ifill: COMPETING NEW
ESTIMATES SURFACED TODAY ON
EXACTLY HOW MANY AMERICANS HAVE
GOTTEN HEALTH CARE COVERAGE
SINCE THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
BECAME LAW.
THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES ESTIMATED THE
FIGURE AT MORE THAN 16 MILLION.
THAT'S BASED PARTLY ON THE
GALLUP-HEALTHWAYS WELL-BEING
INDEX.
OFFICIALS AT GALLUP AGREED
COVERAGE HAS GONE UP, BUT THEY
PUT THE INCREASE AT 9.7 MILLION.
>> Woodruff: THE UNITED STATES
AND IRAN HAVE SPENT ANOTHER FIVE
HOURS IN NUCLEAR TALKS, WITH AN
END-OF-THE-MONTH DEADLINE
BEARING DOWN.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
MET TODAY WITH IRAN'S FOREIGN
MINISTER MOHAMMAD JAVAD ZARIF,
IN LAUSANNE, SWITZERLAND.
THERE WAS WORD THE IRANIANS
ASKED ABOUT A SENATE REPUBLICAN
LETTER THAT WARNED PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S SUCCESSOR COULD REVOKE
ANY DEAL.
THE IRANIAN DELEGATION ALSO MET
WITH EUROPEAN MINISTERS, IN
BRUSSELS.
>> ( translated ): WE HOPE FOR
AN AGREEMENT, BUT ONLY IF THE
AGREEMENT IS VERY SOLID.
THERE HAS BEEN PROGRESS BUT
IMPORTANT POINTS REMAIN WHICH
ARE NOT RESOLVED AND WE WILL SEE
IF WE CAN MAKE PROGRESS.
>> Woodruff: AFTERWARD, THERE
WAS WORD THAT THE SESSION IN
BRUSSELS FAILED TO BRIDGE ANY
DIFFERENCES.
>> Ifill: IN IRAQ, A GOVERNMENT
OFFENSIVE AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE
FIGHTERS IN TIKRIT WAS PUT ON
HOLD TODAY.
THE IRAQI MILITARY AND SHIITE
MILITIAS HAVE ALREADY MADE BIG
GAINS.
BUT THE INTERIOR MINISTER SAID
THEY EXPECT BITTER FIGHTING
AHEAD.
>> ( translated ): MORE THAN 90%
OF OUR OBJECTIVES ARE GOING
ACCORDING TO PNS ALAND TIMINGS.
WHAT HAS REMAINED IS A VERY
SMALL PART WHICH IS THE CENTER
OF TIKRIT.
THE MILITANTS PLANTED BOMBS IN
GOVERNMENT OFFICES AND
BUILDINGS.
BY HALTING MILITARY OPERATIONS,
WE ALSO AIM TO GIVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO CIVILIANS AND
FAMILIES TO GET AWAY FROM THE
BATTLEFIELD.
>> Ifill: TIKRIT IS SADDAM
HUSSEIN'S HOME, AND HIS ONCE-
LAVISH TOMB HAS BEEN WRECKED BY
THE FIGHTING.
WHAT'S LEFT ARE MOSTLY PILES OF
CONCRETE RUBBLE.
>> Woodruff: RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN RESURFACED TODAY,
AFTER 10 DAYS OUT OF PUBLIC
VIEW.
THE UNEXPLAINED ABSENCE HAD
FUELED MEDIA RUMORS ABOUT HIS
HEALTH.
PUTIN DISMISSED THOSE CONCERNS
AS HE MET WITH THE PRESIDENT OF
KYRGYZSTAN IN ST. PETERSBURG,
RUSSIA.
HE QUIPPED TO REPORTERS: "IT
WOULD BE DULL WITHOUT GOSSIP".
ALSO TODAY, THE RUSSIAN MILITARY
LAUNCHED EXERCISES ACROSS THE
RE INVOLVED.
>> Ifill: OFFICIALS IN VANUATU
LABORED TODAY TO ASSESS THE
SCOPE OF DEVASTATION FROM
A POWERFUL WEEKEND STORM.
"CYCLONE PAM" BLASTED THE SOUTH
PACIFIC ISLAND CHAIN WITH WINDS
OF 185 MILES PER HOUR.
IT KILLED AT LEAST 24 PEOPLE AND
LEFT 3,300 HOMELESS.
LUCY WATSON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS FROM THE
SCENE.
>> Reporter: THE OUTLYING
ISLANDS, LITTLE IS KNOWN ABOUT
IN THIS DISASTER.
THOSE WITH NO PROTECTION FROM
THE STRONG WINDS ARE STRUGGLING.
THEY'VE LOST SHELTER AND
CONTACT.
>> THIS CYCLONE WE'VE NEVER HAD
BEFORE.
>> Reporter: JOE EXPLAINED THE
DIFFICULTIES FACING HIS VILLAGE.
>> WE RELY ON FUJI FOR FOOD.
THE WIND HAS TORN IT DOWN.
>> Reporter: WE MET MARIA,
EIGHT AND A HALF MONTHS
PREGNANT.
SHE'S WORRIED ABOUT HER UNBORN
CHILD BECAUSE THE ISLAND HAS RUN
OUT OF MEDICINE AND IT TAKES TOO
LONG TO REACH THE NEAREST
HOSPITAL.
THERE ARE 65 INHABITED ISLANDS
IN THIS AREA, FEW HAVE BEEN
VISITED.
THIS ARE THE SIGHTS AND SOUNDS
MANY ARE WAITING FOR.
AID IS COMING TO SOME WHOSE
LIVES AND LIVELIHOODS HAVE BEEN
TORN APART BY "CYCLONE PAM.
THE RED EYES OF ROSE, SINGLE
MOTHER OF FOUR TELL HER TALE.
AS THE CYCLONE RAGED, SHE SAID,
I CONVINCED MYSELF I WAS ALREADY
DEAD.
I'VE LOST MY HOME.
LOOKING AT IT, I DON'T KNOW HOW
TO MOVE ON.
MY LIFE IS OVER.
THIS WAS ONE OF 1,000 HOMES IN
THIS VILLAGE COMPLETELY
FLATTENED.
THE COMMUNITY, THOUGH, HAS
ALREADY STARTED TO REBUILD WITH
WHATEVER MATERIALS THEY CAN
FIND, TESTAMENT TO THE
RESILIENCE OF THE PEOPLE OF
VANUATU.
THIS PLACE IS MORE EXPOSED TO
NATURAL DISASTER THAN NINE WHERE
ELSE IN THE WORLD.
ITS PEOPLE ARE STILL LEARNING
HOW TO PROTECT WHAT THEY LOVE.
>> Ifill: VANUATU HAS 270,000
PEOPLE, SCATTERED ACROSS MORE
THAN 60 ISLANDS.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THIS
COUNTRY, THE MAN ACCUSED OF
SHOOTING AND WOUNDING TWO POLICE
OFFICERS IN FERGUSON, MISSOURI,
LAST WEEK APPEARED IN COURT
TODAY FOR THE FIRST TIME.
JEFFERY WILLIAMS DID NOT MAKE A
STATEMENT OR ENTER A PLEA.
THE PROSECUTOR SAID WILLIAMS
ADMITTED TO THE SHOOTINGS, BUT
TOLD INVESTIGATORS HE'D BEEN
AIMING AT SOMEONE ELSE.
>> Ifill: BOSTON HAS FINALLY SET
A DUBIOUS NEW RECORD: MOST SNOW
IN A SINGLE WINTER.
THE CITY GOT NEARLY THREE MORE
INCHES ON SUNDAY, PUSHING THE
SEASONAL TOTAL TO 108.6 INCHES.
THAT'S MORE THAN NINE FEET OF
SNOW, AND THE MOST SINCE BOSTON
BEGAN KEEPING RECORDS IN 1872.
>> Woodruff: AND, CURTIS GANS, A
LONG-TIME EXPERT ON VOTER
TURNOUT IN THE U.S., DIED LAST
NIGHT.
HE'D BEEN HOSPITALIZED IN
FREDERICK, MARYLAND.
GANS' "CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF
THE AMERICAN ELECTORATE" WAS
WIDELY RECOGNIZED FOR HIS
TURNOUT DATA AND ANALYSIS.
HE ALSO LED OPPOSITION TO A
SECOND TERM FOR PRESIDENT LYNDON
JOHNSON, OVER THE VIETNAM WAR,
IN 1968.
JOHNSON OPTED NOT TO RUN AGAIN.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE FINAL PUSH BEFORE ISRAELIS
VOTE FOR THEIR NEXT GOVERNMENT.
PROSPECTS FOR PEACE IN SYRIA AS
THE NATION'S CIVIL WAR ENTERS A
FIFTH YEAR.
KEEPING HE HEOMALTH CARE
AFFORDABLE WHILE PAYING WORKERS
BETTER WAGES.
THE WEEK AHEAD IN POLITICS WITH
AMY WALTER AND TAMARA KEITH.
AND, PULL OUT YOUR BRACKETS-- WE
LOOK AT THIS YEAR'S MARCH
MADNESS.
>> Ifill: ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU IS IN THE
FINAL THROES OF A POLITICAL
FIGHT, AS HE FADES IN THE POLLS,
AHEAD OF TOMORROW'S ELECTION.
LATE THIS AFTERNOON, IN AN
ATTEMPT TO SECURE MORE RIGHT
WING VOTES, HE ANNOUNCED THAT
THERE WILL BE NO PALESTINIAN
STATE IF HE'S RE-ELECTED.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL REPORTS FROM
ISRAEL.
>> Reporter: ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU
TAKING HIS CAMPAIGN TO THE
JEWISH SETTLEMENT OF HAR HOMA,
THE HEART OF RIGHT WING
TERRITORY.
NETANYAHU NEEDS THEM TO VOTE
LIKUD, WARNING SETTLERS ABOUT
THE DANGERS OF A CENTER-LEFT
GOVERNMENT LED BY ISAAC HERZOG
AND TZIPI LIVNI.
>> ( translated ): THE TRUTH IS
SIMPLE: IF TZIPI AND BOUGIE FORM
THE NEXT GOVERNMENT HERE ON
THESE HILLS, WE WILL HAVE A
SECOND HAMASTAN.
WE PREVENTED IT, WE PREVENT IT.
WE DEVELOP HERE GREAT
NEIGHBORHOODS FOR TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF ISRAELIS.
WE ARE COMMITED TO IT.
>> Reporter: IN AN INTERVIEW
LATER IN THE DAY, NETANYAHU
STATED PLAINLY THAT IF HE IS RE-
ELECTED THERE WOULD BE NO
PALESTINIAN STATE-- A REVERSAL
OF HIS SUPPORT FOR "2 STATES FOR
2 PEOPLES."
IT IS A SIGNIFICANT TURNAROUND,
A CLEAR SIGN THAT NETANYAHU
KNOWS HE IS FIGHTING FOR HIS
POLITICAL SURVIVAL.
AMOS HAREL IS A COLUMNIST FOR
ISRAELS HAARETZ NEWSPAPER.
>> NETANYAHU IS MUCH MORE ACTIVE
THAN WE ARE USED TO-- FOR
INSTANCE HE AVOIDED ANY KINDS OF
INTERVIEW WITH ISRAELI MEDIA FOR
YEARS AND THE LAST TWO WEEKS
HE'S BEEN INTERVIEWED EVERYWHERE
INCLUDING LOCAL RADIO STATIONS.
HE'S CALLING EVERYBODY TO GO AND
VOTE HE'S GOING BACK TO HIS BASE
THE RIGHT WING VOTERS AND HOPING
THAT THE POLLS THAT SHOW ZIONIST
CAMP LEADING ARE GOING TO HELP
HIM BECAUSE IT'S A PANIC ATTACK
OR A CALL TO ARMS FOR THE
LIKUDNIKS-- THE OLD VOTERS OF
LIKUD.
>> Reporter: WHEN THE ELECTION
WAS ANNOUNCED BACK IN DECEMBER,
FEW BELIEVED MUCH WOULD CHANGE.
EVERYONE FELT BIBI NETANYAHU
WOULD BE REELECTED.
BUT IT HAS CHANGED.
ON THE EVE OF THE LAST ELECTION,
YOU COULD WALK INTO A MARKET
LIKE THIS IN TEL AVIV AND PRETTY
MUCH EVERYONE WOULD BE VOTING
FOR BENJAMIN NETANYAHU.
IT'S A LIKUD STRONGHOLD
LIKUD STILL HAS A GREAT DEAL OF
SUPPORT HERE BUT ITS NOT LIKE IT
WAS BEFORE.
RUTH MOSES VOTED FOR NETANYAHU
THE LAST ELECTION, BUT THIS
TIME?
>> I HOPE NOT NETANYAHU, I HOPE
NOT NETANYAHU.
BECAUSE HE DON'T DO NOTHING FOR
THE PEOPLE HE ONLY DO FOR
HIMSELF.
HE LIKE TO LIVE IN LUXURY.
>> WHO DID YOU VOTE FOR THE LAST
TIME?
>> THE RIGHT.
>> SO YOU VOTED FOR LIKUD LAST
TIME?
>> RIGHT.
>> AND THIS TIME?
>> I'M NOSURET .
>> Reporter: YACHIL DELOYA HAS
ALWAYS VOTED LIKUD, ALWAYS
SUPPORTED NETANYAHU AND SAYS HE
WILL AGAIN-BUT HE'S WORRIED.
ARE YOU AFRAID HE MIGHT LOSE
THIS TIME?
>> YES I AM AFRAID LITTLE BIT
BECAUSE IT'S A TIME THAT YOU
FEEL LIKE HE MIGHT LOSE.
BUT WE HOPE FOR GOOD NEWS.
>> Reporter: THE VOICES AGAINST
NETANYAHU ARE GROWING
INCREASINGLY LOUD.
200 FORMER TOP RANKING MILITARY
AND SECURITY OFFICIALS MADE A
VERY PUBLIC STATEMENT,
DENOUNCING HIM.
FORMER GENERAL ASHER LEVY IS ONE
OF THEM.
>> WE ARE NOT LEFTISTS.
WE THINK THAT HE IS DAMAGING OUR
SECURITY SITUATION AND BECAUSE
OF THAT WE THINK HE SHOULD BE
CHANGED.
WE ARE NOT TELLING ANYONE WHO TO
VOTE FOR BUT WE ARE DEFINITELY
AGAINST BIBI NETANYAHU WE THINK
HE SHOULD BE CHANGED.
>> Reporter: HERZOG FACED
NETANYAHU IN A TV DEBATE ON
SATURDAY.
HERZOG'S LACK OF SECURITY
CREDENTIALS HAS LED TO A
CARICATURE HERE THAT HE IS WEAK
BUT HE LAUNCHED A VERY STRONG
ATTACK.
>> ( translated ): THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY KNOWS
THAT YOU ARE WEAK HE SAID, AND
DOES NOT ACCEPT YOUR POSITION.
>> Reporter: IT IS ESTIMATED
THAT AT LEAST 10% OF ISRAELIS
HAVE YET TO DECIDE AND IN A
CLOSE RACE LIKE THIS THOSE VOTES
ARE CRITICAL.
CAMPAIGNING WILL CONTINUE UNTIL
THE POLLS CLOSE TOMORROW NIGHT.
FOR THE NEWSHOUR, I'M MARTIN
SEEMUNGAL IN TEL AVIV.
>> Ifill: I SPOKE TO MARTIN
SEEMUNGAL A SHORT TIME AGO.
MARSEN, THANK YOU FOR JOINS.
THE BIG NEWS TOORKSD BIBI'S
STATEMENT ABOUT CHANGING HIS
MIND OR WHATEVER ON THE
TWO-STATE SOLUTION SAYING IF HE
WERE REELECTED HE WOULD NOT
SUPPORT IT.
HOW BIG A SWITCH THIS FOR HIM
ESPECIALLY SINCE 2009 WHEN HE
GAVE THE BIG SPEECH SAYING HE
WAS FOR IT?
>> IT'S A VERY BIG SWITCH.
HE GAVE THAT SPEECH AT THE
UNIVERSITY AND EVERYONE WAS
TOUTING THIS AS A VERY
SIGNIFICANT MOMENT.
ACTUALLY A LIKUD LEADER AND
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER COMING
OUT AND COMMITTING HIMSELF
OPENLY ESPECIALLY BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU WHO'D BEEN SEEN AS
SUCH A HARD LINER SAYING HE
BELIEVES IN A TWO-STATE
SOLUTION, TWO STATES FOR TWO
PEOPLE'S.
OBVIOUSLY, OVER THE LAST SIX
YEARS, HE'S NOT MOVED MUCH ON
THAT FRONT.
HIS CRITICS HAVE BEEN SAYING
EVEN THOUGH HE SAID THAT,
QUOTING THAT SPEECH, H HE'S
NEVER DONE MUCH TO DELIVER.
NEGOTIATIONS HAVE BEEN OFF AND
ON AND MOSTLY OFF.
PEOPLE SAY HE'S PAID LIP SERVICE
TO THAT STATEMENT AND BECAUSE OF
THAT THE PALESTINIANS HAVE
BROKEN OFF NEGOTIATIONS.
THEY HAVE BEEN FROZEN FOR SO
LONG, THE AMERICANS HAVE BEEN
TRYING TO GET NETANYAHU TO
COMMIT TO GO TO THE TABLE, BRING
THE PALESTINIANS ALONG AS WELL,
OBVIOUSLY.
BUT THE KEY IS THAT THIS
STATEMENT, IT'S NO COINCIDENCE
IT'S COMING OUT ON THE EVE OF
THIS ELECTION BECAUSE,
BASICALLY, HE'S MAKING A
STATEMENT TO THE RIGHT WING THAT
HE -- IF THERE WAS ANY DOUBT AS
TO WHERE HE STANDS, HE IS
STANDING WITH THEM AND THAT IS
THERE WILL BE NO PALESTINIAN
STATE.
>> Ifill: HOW MUCH IS THIS,
SURPRISINGLY FOR US, WE HAVE
BEEN WATCH IS IT, HOW MUCH OF IT
IS DRIVEN BY DOMESTIC AND HOW
MUCH BY INTERNATAL PAST ISRAELI
ELECTIONS?
>> WELL, IT'S A BIT OF BOTH IN
ONE SENSE BECAUSE, CENTURIES
BASTECALLY, THE THE WAY YOU LOOK
AT IT IS NETANYAHU HAS BEEN
PUSHING THE INTERNATIONAL
THREAT, THE FACT THAT IRAN IS
THIS EXISTENTIAL THREAT TO
ISRAEL AND ONLY HE CAN DEFEND
THE COUNTRY AND, OF COURSE, MANY
PEOPLE ESPECIALLY IN THE RIGHT
WING SEE MR. BENJAMIN NETANYAHU
AS THE SECURITY SO THAT IS THE
CARD HE PLAYS, THE INTERNATIONAL
CARD.
UNDERNEATH ALL THAT, ARE
ISRAELIS WHO SAY, YES, WE
BELIEVE HE'S A STRONG PRIME
MINISTER BUT, ON THE OTHER HAND,
YOU KNOW, WE DON'T REALLY WANT
TO TALK ABOUT AT THAT TIME.
THE POLLS SHOW -- WE DON'T
REALLY WANT TO TALK ABOUT THAT.
THE POLLS SHOW, AS FAR AS
ISRAELIS ARE CONCERNED, THEY'RE
NOT REALLY THAT CONCERNED ABOUT
SECURITY.
SO WHAT THEY'RE REALLY CONCERNED
ABOUT ARE THE DOMESTIC ISSUES,
THE FACT THAT HOUSING PRICES ARE
SKY HIGH, THE FACT THAT THE COST
OF LIVING IS SO EXPENSIVE FOR
ISRAELIS, THAT'S THE THING THAT
YOU HEAR PEOPLE WANT TO TALK
ABOUT, BUT THAT REALLY HASN'T
EVOLVED IN THE ELECTION CAMPAIGN
AND IN THE DEBATE.
SO, AS A RESULT, A LOT OF PEOPLE
ARE SAYING THAT BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU HAS MADE A MISTAKE IN
NOT ADDRESSING THOSE CONCERNS
AND THAT'S WHY HE'S BEEN DIPPING
IN THE POLLS.
>> Ifill: YITZHAK HERZOG HAS
BEEN RUNNING IN TANDEM WITH
LIVNI, THEY WORKED OUT A DEAL
WHERE THEY WILL BE ROTATING AND
THAT WILL NOT HAPPEN NOW.
HOW MUCH IS ABOUT
POST-ELECTIONING POSITIONING?
>> WELL, IT'S ALL ABOUT THAT
BECAUSE MANY I'M PEOPLE ARE
SAYING HERZOG IS WEAK AND NOT
CHARISMATIC AND THEY BROUGHT IN
TZIPI LIVNI BECAUSE SHE HAS
RIGHT WING CREDENTIALS, SEEN AS
CENTER RIGHT ALMOST.
THE FACT SHE'S NOW WITHDRAWING
AT SOME POINT, SOME PEOPLE SAY
IT'S A BIT LATE TO BE DOING
THAT, IT COULD HARM THEM BURKS
THEY'RE CALCULATING THAT THEY
WANT TO SELL THEMSELVES AS ONE
PARTY.
>> Ifill: GOING TO BE A
FASCINATING OUTCOME TO WATCH,
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL FOR US IN
TEL AVIV TONIGHT, THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: ON ISRAEL'S BORDER,
A MORBID ANNIVERSARY PASSES THIS
WEEK FOR A RAGING WAR WHICH HAS
CLAIMED MORE THAN 200,000 LIVES,
AND HAS LEFT MILLIONS HOMELESS.
FOUR YEARS IN, AND THERE'S NO
END IN SIGHT TO THE KILLING IN
SYRIA.
JUST TODAY, NEW GOVERNME AIRNT
STRIKES HIT A SUBURB OF
DAMASCUS.
AND, SYRIAN PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-
ASSAD INSISTED AGAIN HE'S
STAYING, UNTIL HIS OWN
COUNTRYMEN DECIDE OTHERWISE.
>> ( translated ): WHETHER THEY
SAY I REMAIN OR NOT, THE SYRIAN
PEOPLE HAVE THE FINAL SAY ON
THIS PARTICULAR MATTER.
ANYTHING THAT CAME FROM OUTSIDE
THE BORDERS WAS ONLY WORDS AND
INTERFERENCE THAT DISAPPEARS
AFTER A WHILE.
>> Woodruff: THAT LAST WAS AIMED
AT SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY.
SUNDAY, ON CBS, HE SUGGESTED ANY
EFFORT TOWARD A TRANSITION IN
SYRIA WOULD INCLUDE ASSAD, AFTER
ALL.
>> I AM CONVINCED THAT, WITH THE
EFFORTS OF OUR ALLIES AND
OTHERS, THERE WILL BE INCREASED
PRESSURE ON ASSAD.
>> AND YOU'RE WILLING TO
NEGOTIATE WITH HIM?
>> WE HAVE TO NEGOTIATE IN THE
END.
>> Woodruff: KERRY'S WORDS
RAISED EYEBROWS, BUT U.S.
OFFICIALS QUICKLY INSISTED
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S POLICY HAS NOT
CHANGED FROM THIS, IN 2012.
>> PRESIDENT AL-ASSAD HAS LOST
LEGITIMACY, THAT HE NEEDS TO
STEP DOWN.
>> Woodruff: THE PUSH TO OUST
ASSAD BEGAN AS PEACEFUL PROTESTS
IN MARCH 2011, AMID THE ARAB
SPRING.
BUT THE REGIME LAUNCHED A BRUTAL
CRACKDOWN AGAINST DEMONSTRATORS
THAT, IN TURN, TRIGGERED A
VIOLENT UPRISING ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
MODERATE REBELS INITIALLY MADE
SOME HEADWAY, BUT WERE HURT BY
INTERNAL DIVISIONS AND A LACK OF
WESTERN SUPPORT, AND THE
INTRUSION OF EXTREMIST GROUPS
LIKE THE AL-NUSRA FRONT.
AT THE SAME TIME, IRAN AND
RUSSIA BOLSTERED DAMASCUS WITH
WEAPONS, MONEY AND EXPERTISE.
AND, IRAN'S LEBANESE ALLY,
HEZBOLLAH, SENT THOUSANDS OF
FIGHTERS INTO SYRIA.
THEN, ADDING TO THE CHAOS, THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP SEIZED LARGE
SECTIONS OF  NORTHERN SYRIA LAST
SUMMER.
OUTSIDE THE WHITE HOUSE
YESTERDAY, HUNDREDS OF
EXPATRIATE SYRIANS, AND SYRIAN-
AMERICANS, APPEALED FOR NEW
ACTION...
>> WE NEED TO TREAT THE ROOT
CAUSE OF EXTREMISM AND TERRORISM
IN THE AREA, WHICH IS
DICTATORSHIP AND ASSAD REGIME
ITSELF.
>> Woodruff: BUT TWO ROUNDS OF
PEACE TALKS HAVE ALREADY FAILED,
AND MANY OF THE PROTESTERS SAY
IT'S CRUSHING TO WATCH,
HELPLESSLY.
>> I ALWAYS FEEL LIKE 'I HOPE
IT'S A DREAM, I HOPE IT'S A
DREAM.'
BUT-- AND I'M AFRAID TO EVEN
COME AND CONNECT WITH THE PEOPLE
BECAUSE I DON'T WANT TO SEE IT,
I DON'T WANT TO THINK ABOUT ITS
REALITY.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY, IT'S A
>> Woodruff: AND FOR NOW, THE
REALITY.
REALITY IS THAT MUCH OF SYRIA
>> Woodruff: AND FOR NOW, THE
HAS BEEN BLASTED TO RUINS, AS
REALITY IS THAT MUCH OF SYRIA
THE WAR ENTERS ITS FIFTH YEAR.
HAS BEEN BLASTED TO RUINS, AS
>> Woodruff: SO, WHEN, IF EVER,
THE WAR ENTERS ITS FIFTH YEAR.
WILL THIS CONFLICT FINALLY END?
>> Woodruff: SO, WHEN, IF EVER,
AND HOW IT WILL HAPPEN?
WILL THIS CONFLICT FINALLY END?
WE HEAR FROM FORMER U.S.
AND HOW IT WILL HAPPEN?
AMBASSADOR TO SYRIA, AND CURRENT
WE HEAR FROM FORMER U.S.
SENIOR FELLOW AT THE MIDDLE EAST
AMBASSADOR TO SYRIA, AND CURRENT
INSTITUTE, ROBERT FORD.
SENIOR FELLOW AT THE MIDDLE EAST
HISHAM MELHEM, WASHINGTON BUREAU
INSTITUTE, ROBERT FORD.
CHIEF FOR THE AL-ARABIYA NEWS
HISHAM MELHEM, WASHINGTON BUREAU
CHANNEL.
CHIEF FOR THE AL-ARABIYA NEWS
AND AN INDIVIDUAL WHO HAS HAD
CHANNEL.
EXTENSIVE EXPERIENCE WORKING
AND AN INDIVIDUAL WHO HAS HAD
WITH THE SYRIAN OPPOSITION,
EXTENSIVE EXPERIENCE WORKING
STEVE HEYDEMANN.
WITH THE SYRIAN OPPOSITION,
HE'S A VICE PRESIDENT AT THE
STEVE HEYDEMANN.
>> Reporter: WELCOME ALL OF
HE'S A VICE PRESIDENT AT THE
YOU TO THE "NewsHour".
>> Reporter: WELCOME ALL OF
ROBERT FORD TO YOU FIRST, WHERE
YOU TO THE "NewsHour".
DOES THIS CONFLICT STAND TODAY?
ROBERT FORD TO YOU FIRST, WHERE
DOES EITHER SIDE OR ANY SIDE
DOES THIS CONFLICT STAND TODAY?
HAVE THE UPPER HAND?
DOES EITHER SIDE OR ANY SIDE
>> IT'S A LONG, GRUELING WAR OF
HAVE THE UPPER HAND?
ATTRITION.
>> IT'S A LONG, GRUELING WAR OF
IRAN IS SENDING IN MORE FORCES.
ATTRITION.
IRAN IS SENDING IN MORE ARMS.
IRAN IS SENDING IN MORE FORCES.
THE OPPOSITION IS RECEIVING HELP
IRAN IS SENDING IN MORE ARMS.
FROM OTHER OUTSIDE STATES AND
THE OPPOSITION IS RECEIVING HELP
THE WAR JUST GRINDS ON.
FROM OTHER OUTSIDE STATES AND
I DON'T SEE ANY END IN SIGHT, AT
THE WAR JUST GRINDS ON.
LEAST IN THE NEAR TERM.
I DON'T SEE ANY END IN SIGHT, AT
>> Woodruff: HISHAM MELHEM, DO
LEAST IN THE NEAR TERM.
YOU AGREE?
>> Woodruff: HISHAM MELHEM, DO
>> ABSOLUTELY.
YOU AGREE?
THIS COULD GRIND ON FOR A NUMBER
>> ABSOLUTELY.
OF YEARS SHORT OF A DECISIVE
THIS COULD GRIND ON FOR A NUMBER
MOVE ON THE PART OF THE UNITED
OF YEARS SHORT OF A DECISIVE
STATES AND REGIONAL ALLIES.
MOVE ON THE PART OF THE UNITED
THIS COULD LAST A LONG TIME
STATES AND REGIONAL ALLIES.
PRECISELY BECAUSE YOU DON'T HAVE
THIS COULD LAST A LONG TIME
TO OPPOSING SIDES AS IN THE
PRECISELY BECAUSE YOU DON'T HAVE
AMERICAN CIVIL WAR OR SPANISH
TO OPPOSING SIDES AS IN THE
CIVIL WAR IN THE 20th CENTURY.
AMERICAN CIVIL WAR OR SPANISH
THIS IS BECOMING ALMOST A WAR OF
CIVIL WAR IN THE 20th CENTURY.
ALL AGAINST ALL AS THOMAS HOBBS
THIS IS BECOMING ALMOST A WAR OF
USED TO SAY, AND THAT IS WHY
ALL AGAINST ALL AS THOMAS HOBBS
IT'S EXTREMELY DIFFICULT TO
USED TO SAY, AND THAT IS WHY
ALLOW IT TO CONTINUE LIKE THAT
IT'S EXTREMELY DIFFICULT TO
BECAUSE THIS IS GOING TO TOUCH
ALLOW IT TO CONTINUE LIKE THAT
THE WHOLE REGION, WHAT HAPPENS
BECAUSE THIS IS GOING TO TOUCH
IN SYRIA IS NOT GOING TO STATE
THE WHOLE REGION, WHAT HAPPENS
IN SYRIA.
IN SYRIA IS NOT GOING TO STATE
SYRIA IS CLOSE TO SOUTHERN
IN SYRIA.
EUROPE AND SYRIA IS NOT
SYRIA IS CLOSE TO SOUTHERN
AFGHANISTAN.
EUROPE AND SYRIA IS NOT
THE FIVE COUNTRIES AROUND SYRIA,
AFGHANISTAN.
ALL OF THEM ARE FRIENDLY TO THE
THE FIVE COUNTRIES AROUND SYRIA,
UNITED STATES, AND ALL OF THEM
ALL OF THEM ARE FRIENDLY TO THE
ARE PAYING A TREMENDOUS PRICE.
UNITED STATES, AND ALL OF THEM
>> Woodruff: STEVE HEYDEMANN,
ARE PAYING A TREMENDOUS PRICE.
WHAT'S YOUR ASSESSMENT?
>> Woodruff: STEVE HEYDEMANN,
>> I TEND TO SHARE THE VIEW WE
WHAT'S YOUR ASSESSMENT?
ARE LOCKED INTO A WAR OF
>> I TEND TO SHARE THE VIEW WE
ATTRITION.
ARE LOCKED INTO A WAR OF
I THINK WE DO HAVE OPPORTUNITIES
ATTRITION.
TO TRY TO SHORTEN THIS CONFLICT
I THINK WE DO HAVE OPPORTUNITIES
THROUGH MUCH MORE PROACTIVE
TO TRY TO SHORTEN THIS CONFLICT
DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS, IN
THROUGH MUCH MORE PROACTIVE
PARTICULAR ON THE PART OF THE
DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS, IN
UNITED RECOGNIZE THAT IN THE
PARTICULAR ON THE PART OF THE
ABSENCE OF THOSE RECORDS WE ARE
UNITED RECOGNIZE THAT IN THE
LIKELY TO SEE THE CONFLICT
ABSENCE OF THOSE RECORDS WE ARE
UNFOLD FOR MANY, MANY YEARS TO
LIKELY TO SEE THE CONFLICT
COME.
UNFOLD FOR MANY, MANY YEARS TO
IT IS VERY IMPORTANT AS
COME.
SECRETARY KERRY INDICATE THAT HE
IT IS VERY IMPORTANT AS
FELT IT IS A PRIORITY TO
SECRETARY KERRY INDICATE THAT HE
REIGNITE A DIPLOMATIC PROCESS TO
FELT IT IS A PRIORITY TO
TRY AND BRING THE SYRIAN
REIGNITE A DIPLOMATIC PROCESS TO
CONFLICT TO NEGOTIATED
TRY AND BRING THE SYRIAN
SETTLEMENT.
CONFLICT TO NEGOTIATED
THE QUESTION IS WHETHER THE U.S.
SETTLEMENT.
HAS A STRATEGY TO ACT ON THE
THE QUESTION IS WHETHER THE U.S.
PRIORITY THAT SECRETARY KERRY
HAS A STRATEGY TO ACT ON THE
EXPRESSED.
PRIORITY THAT SECRETARY KERRY
SO FAR WE HAVEN'T SEEN THAT BUT
EXPRESSED.
IT IS A VERY IMPORTANT PRIORITY.
SO FAR WE HAVEN'T SEEN THAT BUT
>> LET ME ASK EACH ONE OF YOU
IT IS A VERY IMPORTANT PRIORITY.
STARTING WITH YOU AMBASSADOR
>> LET ME ASK EACH ONE OF YOU
FORD.
STARTING WITH YOU AMBASSADOR
WHAT WOULD AN OUTSIDE TIMMATIC
FORD.
INTERVENTION LOOK LIKE AT THIS
WHAT WOULD AN OUTSIDE TIMMATIC
POINT?
INTERVENTION LOOK LIKE AT THIS
>> COUPLE OF THINGS.
POINT?
THE KEY REGIONAL STATES ON ALL
>> COUPLE OF THINGS.
SIDES BECAUSE THERE ARE MANY
THE KEY REGIONAL STATES ON ALL
STATES PUMPING IN WEAPONS AND
SIDES BECAUSE THERE ARE MANY
MONEY TO THE OPPOSING SIDE'S
STATES PUMPING IN WEAPONS AND
GOVERNMENT AND OPPOSITION, THOSE
MONEY TO THE OPPOSING SIDE'S
STATES ARE GOING TO NEED TO
GOVERNMENT AND OPPOSITION, THOSE
AGREE ON SORT OF THE BROAD
STATES ARE GOING TO NEED TO
OUTLINE OF WHAT A SETTLEMENT
AGREE ON SORT OF THE BROAD
SHOULD BE AND ACTUALLY, I SAY
OUTLINE OF WHAT A SETTLEMENT
BROAD OUTLINE, BUT IT MAY HAVE
SHOULD BE AND ACTUALLY, I SAY
TO BE A BIT MORE DETAILED.
BROAD OUTLINE, BUT IT MAY HAVE
WE THOUGHT WE HAD SUCH AN
TO BE A BIT MORE DETAILED.
AGREEMENT IN THE SUMMER OF 2012,
WE THOUGHT WE HAD SUCH AN
IN JUNE 2012 WITHIN SECRETARY OF
AGREEMENT IN THE SUMMER OF 2012,
STATE HILLARY CLINTON CAME TO AN
IN JUNE 2012 WITHIN SECRETARY OF
AGREEMENT WITH THE RUSSIANS,
STATE HILLARY CLINTON CAME TO AN
WITH ARAB COUNTRIES, WITH
AGREEMENT WITH THE RUSSIANS,
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES, WITH THE
WITH ARAB COUNTRIES, WITH
UNITED NATIONS ON WHAT SUCH A
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES, WITH THE
SETTLEMENT SHOULD LOOK LIKE, BUT
UNITED NATIONS ON WHAT SUCH A
THE COUNTRIES WERE UNABLE TO
SETTLEMENT SHOULD LOOK LIKE, BUT
AGREE AT THE GENEVA CONFERENCE.
THE COUNTRIES WERE UNABLE TO
SO WE HAVE TO GO BACK AND MAKE
AGREE AT THE GENEVA CONFERENCE.
SURE EVERYONE AGREES ON THE
SO WE HAVE TO GO BACK AND MAKE
INTERNATIONAL FRAMEWORK.
SURE EVERYONE AGREES ON THE
THE SECOND PART AND NO ONE HAS
INTERNATIONAL FRAMEWORK.
ACHIEVED THIS, THERE IS GOING TO
THE SECOND PART AND NO ONE HAS
HAVE TO BE AN AGREEMENT ON THE
ACHIEVED THIS, THERE IS GOING TO
PART OF THE REGIONAL STATES
HAVE TO BE AN AGREEMENT ON THE
PUMPING IN THE WEAPONRY THAT
PART OF THE REGIONAL STATES
THEY WILL SNGS THE SIDES THAT
PUMPING IN THE WEAPONRY THAT
BREAK THE AGREED
THEY WILL SNGS THE SIDES THAT
INTERPRETATIONAL FRAMEWORK SO
BREAK THE AGREED
THERE IS A PRAYS -- A PRICE
INTERPRETATIONAL FRAMEWORK SO
NOT PAYING ATTENTION TO WHAT THE
THERE IS A PRAYS -- A PRICE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY WANTS TO
NOT PAYING ATTENTION TO WHAT THE
SE HAPPEN.
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY WANTS TO
>> Woodruff: STEVE HEYDEMANN,
SE HAPPEN.
DOES THAT SOUND LIKE THE RIGHT
>> Woodruff: STEVE HEYDEMANN,
APPROACH TO TRY STALEMATE?
DOES THAT SOUND LIKE THE RIGHT
>> I THINK WE SHOULD FOCUS ON
APPROACH TO TRY STALEMATE?
WHAT THE OPPORTUNITIES MIGHT BE
>> I THINK WE SHOULD FOCUS ON
TO REVIVE THE PROCESS NOW.
WHAT THE OPPORTUNITIES MIGHT BE
THERE'S INDICATIONS THE INTERNAL
TO REVIVE THE PROCESS NOW.
SUPPORT FOR THE REGIME IS
THERE'S INDICATIONS THE INTERNAL
ERODING.
SUPPORT FOR THE REGIME IS
WE'VE SEEN VERY LITTLE SUCCESS
ERODING.
ON THE BATTLEFIELD ON THE PART
WE'VE SEEN VERY LITTLE SUCCESS
OF REGIME FORCES.
ON THE BATTLEFIELD ON THE PART
WE KNOW THAT THE PROXY STATES,
OF REGIME FORCES.
RUSSIA IN PARTICULAR, WHICH HAS
WE KNOW THAT THE PROXY STATES,
BEEN AN ACTIVE SUPPORTER OF IRAN
RUSSIA IN PARTICULAR, WHICH HAS
IS BEGINNING TO SHOW SIGNS OF
BEEN AN ACTIVE SUPPORTER OF IRAN
FATIGUE IN SUSTAINING THAT
IS BEGINNING TO SHOW SIGNS OF
RELATIONSHIP.
FATIGUE IN SUSTAINING THAT
WHILE I DO AGREE THAT THE
RELATIONSHIP.
GENERAL APPROACH AMBASSADOR FORD
WHILE I DO AGREE THAT THE
SPELLED OUT IS THE CORRECT ONE,
GENERAL APPROACH AMBASSADOR FORD
I WOULDN'T UNDERESTIMATE THE
SPELLED OUT IS THE CORRECT ONE,
EXTENTTHE TIME WHICH PASSED
I WOULDN'T UNDERESTIMATE THE
SINCE THE FIRST GENEVA PROCESS
EXTENTTHE TIME WHICH PASSED
MAY LIVE US STRONGER POSITION TO
SINCE THE FIRST GENEVA PROCESS
MOVE FORWARD ON A NEGOTIATION
MAY LIVE US STRONGER POSITION TO
TRACK THAN IN 2014.
MOVE FORWARD ON A NEGOTIATION
>> Woodruff: WHO SHOULD BE AT
TRACK THAN IN 2014.
THE NEGOTIATING TABLE?
>> Woodruff: WHO SHOULD BE AT
WHO IS NEGOTIATING WITH WHOM?
THE NEGOTIATING TABLE?
>> WELL, BEFORE I ANSWER THAT
WHO IS NEGOTIATING WITH WHOM?
DIRECTLY, THIS IS PREDICATED ON
>> WELL, BEFORE I ANSWER THAT
THE UNITED STATES PLAYING A
DIRECTLY, THIS IS PREDICATED ON
DECISIVE LEADING ROLE.
THE UNITED STATES PLAYING A
>> Woodruff: HAS TO BE THERE.
DECISIVE LEADING ROLE.
ABSOLUTELY.
>> Woodruff: HAS TO BE THERE.
THE UNITED STATES HAS TO PUSH
ABSOLUTELY.
THE REGIONAL POWERS THAT
THE UNITED STATES HAS TO PUSH
CONTRIBUTED TO THE MESS IN THE
THE REGIONAL POWERS THAT
FIRST PLACE ALLOWING ARM MAMENTS
CONTRIBUTED TO THE MESS IN THE
AND -- HAR AIR ARMAMENTS AND THE
FIRST PLACE ALLOWING ARM MAMENTS
VOLUNTEERS ESPECIALLY TO THE
AND -- HAR AIR ARMAMENTS AND THE
TURKEY-SYRIAN BORDER.
VOLUNTEERS ESPECIALLY TO THE
THE POLICY HAS TO CHANGE.
TURKEY-SYRIAN BORDER.
THE UNITED STATES CAN STILL HELP
THE POLICY HAS TO CHANGE.
THE NON-JIHADI OPPOSITION.
THE UNITED STATES CAN STILL HELP
ANY GROUP WE CAN DEAL WITH SHORT
THE NON-JIHADI OPPOSITION.
OF SUPPORTING AL QUAIDA OR
ANY GROUP WE CAN DEAL WITH SHORT
I.S.I.S.
OF SUPPORTING AL QUAIDA OR
EVEN LAMSISTS, IF THEY ARE NOT
I.S.I.S.
CAUSING ISLAMIC JIHAD BY FORCE,
EVEN LAMSISTS, IF THEY ARE NOT
OULDSH BE AT
CAUSING ISLAMIC JIHAD BY FORCE,
IN THE END THERE HAS TO BE A
OULDSH BE AT
CLEAR AMERICAN POSITION, FROM
IN THE END THERE HAS TO BE A
THE OPPOSITION, FROM THE ARAB
CLEAR AMERICAN POSITION, FROM
SIDE AND TURKEY THAT ASSAD WILL
THE OPPOSITION, FROM THE ARAB
HAVE NO FUTURE IN SYRIA, THEN WE
SIDE AND TURKEY THAT ASSAD WILL
CAN TALK ABOUT SYRIA'S
HAVE NO FUTURE IN SYRIA, THEN WE
TRANSITION, BUT THE UNITED
CAN TALK ABOUT SYRIA'S
STATES THAT IS TO PUT THE PARTS
TRANSITION, BUT THE UNITED
TOGETHER.
STATES THAT IS TO PUT THE PARTS
THERE'S NO LEADERSHIP SO FAR AND
TOGETHER.
THAT'S PART OF THE PROBLEM.
THERE'S NO LEADERSHIP SO FAR AND
>> Woodruff: AMBASSADOR FORD,
THAT'S PART OF THE PROBLEM.
DOES THAT SOUND LIKE THE WAY YOU
>> Woodruff: AMBASSADOR FORD,
GET FROM HERE TO SOME KIND OF A
DOES THAT SOUND LIKE THE WAY YOU
PRODUCTIVE CONVERSATION?
GET FROM HERE TO SOME KIND OF A
>> IT'S AN ELEMENT.
PRODUCTIVE CONVERSATION?
IT'S MOTT THE -- IT'S NOT THE
>> IT'S AN ELEMENT.
ONLY ELEMENTS.
IT'S MOTT THE -- IT'S NOT THE
THERE HAS TO BE A GREAT DEAL
ONLY ELEMENTS.
MORE PRESSURE ON THE SYRIAN
THERE HAS TO BE A GREAT DEAL
GOVERNMENT ITSELF.
MORE PRESSURE ON THE SYRIAN
13 MONTHS AGO?
GOVERNMENT ITSELF.
GENEVA WHEN SECRETARY KERRY WAS
13 MONTHS AGO?
THERE, BIG INTERNATIONAL
GENEVA WHEN SECRETARY KERRY WAS
CONFERENCE, THE SYRIAN REGIME
THERE, BIG INTERNATIONAL
POINT-BLANK REFUSED TO NEGOTIATE
CONFERENCE, THE SYRIAN REGIME
IT IN KIND OF -- NEGOTIATE ANY
POINT-BLANK REFUSED TO NEGOTIATE
KIND OF POLITICAL DEAL,
IT IN KIND OF -- NEGOTIATE ANY
POINT-BLANK REFUSED.
KIND OF POLITICAL DEAL,
SO THERE HAS TO BE MORE PRESSURE
POINT-BLANK REFUSED.
ON THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT TO GO
SO THERE HAS TO BE MORE PRESSURE
TO THE TABLE AND NEGOTIATE AND
ON THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT TO GO
MAKE COMPROMISES, WHICH IS WHY
TO THE TABLE AND NEGOTIATE AND
IT'S IMPORTANT, EVEN AS THE
MAKE COMPROMISES, WHICH IS WHY
UNITED STATES AND OUR FRIENDS
IT'S IMPORTANT, EVEN AS THE
CONFRONT, FIGHT THE ISLAMIC
UNITED STATES AND OUR FRIENDS
STATE IN IRAQ AND SYRIA,
CONFRONT, FIGHT THE ISLAMIC
IGNORING THE ROOT CAUSE OF THE
STATE IN IRAQ AND SYRIA,
ISLAMIC STATE PROBLEM IN SYRIA,
IGNORING THE ROOT CAUSE OF THE
IGNORING THE BRUTALITY OF THE
ISLAMIC STATE PROBLEM IN SYRIA,
OUTSIDE REGIME AND IGNORING THE
IGNORING THE BRUTALITY OF THE
NEED TO GET TO A NEGOTIATED DEAL
OUTSIDE REGIME AND IGNORING THE
WILL LEAD UG NOWHERE.
NEED TO GET TO A NEGOTIATED DEAL
>> Woodruff: LET ME TURN TO
WILL LEAD UG NOWHERE.
STEVE HEYDEMANN BECAUSE MANY
>> Woodruff: LET ME TURN TO
PEOPLE ARE LOOKING AND SAYING
STEVE HEYDEMANN BECAUSE MANY
WHO DOES ANYBODY SIT DOWN WITH
PEOPLE ARE LOOKING AND SAYING
TO REPRESENT THE OPPOSITION
WHO DOES ANYBODY SIT DOWN WITH
ANYMORE BECAUSE IT'S SO
TO REPRESENT THE OPPOSITION
FRACTURED?
ANYMORE BECAUSE IT'S SO
>> WELL, THERE HAVE BEEN VERY
FRACTURED?
INTERESTING DEVELOPMENTS ON THE
>> WELL, THERE HAVE BEEN VERY
OPPOSITION SIDE THAT, AGAIN, I
INTERESTING DEVELOPMENTS ON THE
THINK SUGGEST SOME POSSIBILITIES
OPPOSITION SIDE THAT, AGAIN, I
THAT THE OPPOSITION, HAVING
THINK SUGGEST SOME POSSIBILITIES
TAKEN FAR, FAR TOO LONG, WRAPPED
THAT THE OPPOSITION, HAVING
UP IN INTERNAL STRUGGLES, IS
TAKEN FAR, FAR TOO LONG, WRAPPED
BEGINNING TO GET ITS ACT
UP IN INTERNAL STRUGGLES, IS
TOGETHER.
BEGINNING TO GET ITS ACT
WE'VE SEEN A COUPLE OF MEETINGS
TOGETHER.
IN CAIRO THAT HAVE BROUGHT
WE'VE SEEN A COUPLE OF MEETINGS
TOGETHER A NUMBER OF DIFFERENT
IN CAIRO THAT HAVE BROUGHT
FACTIONS WITHIN THE OPPOSITION.
TOGETHER A NUMBER OF DIFFERENT
THE RUSSIANS MORE PROACTIVE ON
FACTIONS WITHIN THE OPPOSITION.
THE DIPLOMATIC FRONT ANT THE
THE RUSSIANS MORE PROACTIVE ON
UNITED STATES HAS ALSO BROUGHT
THE DIPLOMATIC FRONT ANT THE
TOGETHER A NUMBER OF GROUPS
UNITED STATES HAS ALSO BROUGHT
WITHIN THE OPPOSITION.
TOGETHER A NUMBER OF GROUPS
VERY LIMITED BUT NEVERTHELESS
WITHIN THE OPPOSITION.
BROUGHT THEM TOGETHER IN MOSCOW
VERY LIMITED BUT NEVERTHELESS
WITH REGIME REPRESENTATIVES TO
BROUGHT THEM TOGETHER IN MOSCOW
TRY TO LAY THE FOUNDATION FOR
WITH REGIME REPRESENTATIVES TO
WHAT COULD BE ANOTHER ROUND OF
TRY TO LAY THE FOUNDATION FOR
THTHE GENEVA PROCESS.
WHAT COULD BE ANOTHER ROUND OF
>> Woodruff: DO YOU SEE
THTHE GENEVA PROCESS.
SOMETHING HAPPENING IN THE NEXT
>> Woodruff: DO YOU SEE
YEAR?
SOMETHING HAPPENING IN THE NEXT
>> IF THE UNITED STATES SAYS
YEAR?
WE'LL ACCELERATE THE PROCESS AND
>> IF THE UNITED STATES SAYS
MAKE IT CLEAR THAT THIS MAN AND
WE'LL ACCELERATE THE PROCESS AND
HIS PEOPLE HAVE NO PLACE IN THE
MAKE IT CLEAR THAT THIS MAN AND
FUTURE OF SYRIA.
HIS PEOPLE HAVE NO PLACE IN THE
WE HAVE TO GIVE THE CLEAR
FUTURE OF SYRIA.
MESSAGE TO THE SYRIANS AND THEN
WE HAVE TO GIVE THE CLEAR
YOU CAN APPEAL THE NON-JIHADISTS
MESSAGE TO THE SYRIANS AND THEN
TO THE CAUSE BECAUSE THE
YOU CAN APPEAL THE NON-JIHADISTS
NON-JIHADISTS WILL BE ALIENATED
TO THE CAUSE BECAUSE THE
AND STAND UP WITH THE UNITED
NON-JIHADISTS WILL BE ALIENATED
STATES AND OTHERS AND REGIONAL
AND STAND UP WITH THE UNITED
POWERS BUT YOU HAVE TO WORK
STATES AND OTHERS AND REGIONAL
AGAIN ON THE MODERATE OPPOSITION
POWERS BUT YOU HAVE TO WORK
WHO WILL BELIEVE THAT SYRIA IS A
AGAIN ON THE MODERATE OPPOSITION
COUNTRY THAT SHOULD MAINTAIN
WHO WILL BELIEVE THAT SYRIA IS A
PLURALISM, THAT ALL THE
COUNTRY THAT SHOULD MAINTAIN
MINORITIES WILL BE RESPECTED, NO
PLURALISM, THAT ALL THE
PERSECUTION, ALL OF THAT.
MINORITIES WILL BE RESPECTED, NO
THIS IS THE POLITICAL ELEMENT
PERSECUTION, ALL OF THAT.
AND THE UNITED STATES HAS BEEN
THIS IS THE POLITICAL ELEMENT
PUSHING IT BUT NOT FORCEFULLY.
AND THE UNITED STATES HAS BEEN
>> Woodruff: AS WE ENTER THE
PUSHING IT BUT NOT FORCEFULLY.
FIFTH YEAR, A LOT HAS NOT
>> Woodruff: AS WE ENTER THE
HAPPENED YET AND WE LOOK TO SEE
FIFTH YEAR, A LOT HAS NOT
HOW IT UNFOLDS.
HAPPENED YET AND WE LOOK TO SEE
HISHAM HEYDEMANN,
HOW IT UNFOLDS.
AMBASSADOR ROBERT FORD, THANK
HISHAM HEYDEMANN,
YOU.
>> Ifill: WE TURN NEXT TO
ANOTHER IN OUR OCCASIONAL SERIES
ON LONG TERM CARE.
AS AMERICANS AGE, MOST PREFER TO
STAY IN THEIR OWN HOMES, AND GET
HELP WHEN NEEDED WITH THE BASICS
OF DAILY LIVING.
A NATIONWIDE CAMPAIGN KICKED OFF
LAST WEEK CALLING ATTENTION TO
THE JOBS AND THE WAGES OF HOME
CARE WORKERS.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT KATHLEEN
MCCLEERY REPORTS.
>> GOOD MORNING.
>> IT'S A PASSION JOB, SO IT
TAKES A LOT OF PATIENCE, A LOT
OF KINDNESS.
>> Reporter: IN LONG BEACH,
CALIFORNIA, THERESA KING CARES
FOR 88-YEAR-OLD OLA MAE JONES
WHO SUFFERS FROM ALZHEIMER'S
DISEASE.
>>  I'M COOKING YOSOMU E FISH.
>> Reporter: FROM COOKING, TO
CLEANING, TO COMFORT...
>> DON'T YOU LOVE ME?
>> Reporter: ...THE JOB IS
PHYSICALLY DEMANDING AND
EMOTIONALLY DRAINING.
KING MAKES $9.70 CENTS AN HOUR,
ALMOST EXACTLY THE AVERAGE FOR
THE NATION'S TWO MILLION HOME
CARE WORKERS.
>> I'M GONNA SHOUT ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: ABOUT 90% ARE
WOMEN, HALF ARE PEOPLE OF COLOR.
LIKE KING, MANY DON'T WORK FULL
TIME AND DON'T GET BENEFITS.
SHE QUALIFIES FOR FOOD STAMPS
AND SAYS ON HER INCOME, SHE
CAN'T AFFORD SOME BASIC
NECESSITIES.
>> IT'S NOT ENOUGH TO HAVE YOURS
NOT ENOUGH TO HAVE YOUR OWN
TRANSPORTATION WITHOUT A
STRUGGLE.
YOU DON'T REALLY GET TO LIVE A
GOOD LIFE ON THE INCOME OF A
HOME CARE WORKER.
>> Reporter: KING'S EMPLOYER,
CAMBRIAN HOME CARE, CHARGES
BETWEEN $18 AND $22 AN HOUR FOR
ITS CAREGIVERS.
RHIANNON ACREE, THE COMPANY'S
FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT, SAYS HER
COSTS GO FAR BEYOND THE WORKERS'
WAGES.
>> YOUR WORKER'S COMP ALONE WILL
ADD YOU THREE DOLLARS, THEN
YOU'VE GOT YOUR UNEMPLOYMENT,
AND YOU'VE GOT YOUR TAXES TO
MATCH, AND YOU'VE GOT YOUR
LIABILITY INSURANCES ON TOP OF
THAT.
THE OTHER NEXT BIG COST IS THE
BACKGROUND CHECK.
THEN YOU WANT TO STAFF, GET THE
COORDINATORS TO PLACE THE RIGHT
CAREGIVER AT THE RIGHT HOUSE,
AND YOU NEED TO MAK SOEME
PROFIT.
>> Reporter: WITH 10,000 BABY
BOOMERS TURNING 65 EVERY DAY,
THE NEED FOR CAREGIVERS LIKE
LOUASA GRANT-MORROW IN
PHILADELPHIA IS SKYROCKETING.
HOME CARE WORK IS ONE OF THE
NATION'S FASTEST GROWING
INDUSTRIES.
BUT UNLIKE MOST OTHER JOBS,
THERE'S NO FEDERAL GUARANTEE
THESE WORKERS GET MINIMUM WAGE
OR OVERTIME.
THAT'S BECAUSE THE FAIR LABOR
STANDARDS ACT, SIGNED INTO LAW
BY PRESIDENT FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT
IN 1938, EXEMPTED DOMESTIC
SERVICE WORKERS.
THE REASON GIVEN: THEY PERFORMED
COMPANIONSHIP JOBS SIMILAR TO
BABYSITTERS.
IN 2013, THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
ISSUED NEW RULES NARROWING THE
COMPANIONSHIP EXEMPTION-- AND
EXTENDING THE FEDERAL MINIMUM
WAGE AND OVERTIME PROTECTION TO
HOME CARE WORKERS.
BEFORE THE RULES TOOK EFFECT, A
FEDERAL JUDGE HAD OVERTURNED
THEM SAYING ONLY CONGRESS COULD
CHANGE THE LAW.
THE LABOR DEPARTMENT HAS
APPEALED, AND A DECISION IS
EXPECTED LATER THIS YEAR.
OVER THE YEARS, CAREGIVERS'
RESPONSIBILITIES HAVE GROWN.
GRANT-MORROW KEEPS TRACK OF
MEDICATIONS AND HELPS 85EAR--Y
OLD ELSIE WISE TRANSFER FROM ONE
WHEELCHAIR TO ANOTHER.
SHE'S WORKED FOR HOME CARE
ASSOCIATES IN PHILADELPHIA FOR
FOUR YEARS.
THAT TENURE IS UNUSUAL FOR AN
INDUSTRY WHERE TURNOVER RATES
ARE 50% EACH YEAR.
H.C.A. BELIEVES IT CAN RETAIN
WORKERS BY OFFERING THEM A
BETTER DEAL.
THOUGH GRANT-MORROW'S PAY IS
LOW-- JUST $8.20 AN HOUR, SHE'S
GUARANTEED FULL TIME WORK, AND
SHE GETS A TRANSIT PASS TO USE
ANYTIME SHE NEEDS
TRANSPORTATION.
THAT'S JUST PART OF THE
COMPANY'S BENEFITS PACKAGE, SAYS
H.C.A.'S PRESIDENT, KAREN KULP.
>> THEY GET PAID TIME OFF,
HEALTH INSURANCE, DENTAL
INSURANCE, LIFE INSURANCE
POLICY, 401K PLAN, DISABILITY
INSURANCE, AND THE ABILITY TO
BECOME WORKER/OWNERS.
>> Reporter: THAT'S RIGHT--
OWNERSHIP IN THE COMPANY AND THE
CHANCE TO SERVE ON THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS.
>> ONE SHARE IS $500 AND THE WAY
WE DO IT IS WE LOAN YOU $465 OF
THAT $500 SO YOU, FROM YOUR
FIRST PAYCHECK WE TAKE OUT $35,
AND THEN YOU CAN PAY THAT BACK
OVER AS MANY MONTHS AS IT TAKES
TO DO THAT, PAYING $3 A WEEK.
>> I'M A PART OF THE COMPANY.
I HAVE A PART TO THE COMPANY.
>> Reporter: GRANT-MORROW BOUGHT
IN, AND HER INVESTMENT HAS PAID
OFF.
>> AND IF WE'RE HAVING A VERY
EXCELLENT YEAR, OF MANY
CLIENTELE AND SO ON, A LOT OF US
GET NICE, WE GET A NICE PRIZE AS
FAR AS BONUSES, GIFTS, AND SO
ON, BY THE END OF THE YEAR, SO
IT PAYS OFF.
IT REALLY DOES.
>> Reporter: SO YOU'VE, YOU'VE
GOT YOUR $500 BACK.
>> OH, I'VE GOT MY $500 BACK.
>> Reporter: IN CALIFORNIA,
THERESA KING WOULD LIKE
BENEFITS, BUT RIGHT NOW, SHE'S
FOCUSED ON GETTING A HIKE IN
PAY.
>> WE'RE SUPPORTING EVERYONE
THAT'S WANTING INCREAD WASEGES.
>> Reporter: SHE'S SPOKEN AT
RALLIES-- PART OF A NATIONAL
EFFORT BY A GROUP CALLED "FIGHT
FOR 15" BACKED BY UNIONS TO
BOOST WAGES TO $15 AN HOUR FOR A
VARIETY OF WORKERS.
>> $15 AN HOUR WOULD CHANGE MY
LIFE, YOU KNOW, IT WOULD CHANGE
MY LIFE, WHEN YOU'RE MAKING MORE
MONEY, IT TAKES AWAY WORRY AND
STRESS WHEN YOU'RE MAKING MORE
MONEY, SO OF COURSE RELEASING ME
OF WORRY AND STRESS ULD WOHELP
ME IN A WHOLE LOT OF WAYS.
>> Reporter: LABOR UNIONS ARGUE
THAT INCREASING WAGES BY 50%
WOULD PUT BILLIONS OF NEW
DOLLARS INTO THE HANDS OF
WORKERS AND WOULD RIPPLE THROUGH
THE ECONOMY CREATING THOUSANDS
OF JOBS.
>> EVERYBODY WOULD LIKE
CAREGIVERS TO MAKE MORE MONEY.
>> Reporter: RHIANNON ACREE SAYS
AGENCIES LIKE HERS HAVE TO
STRIKE A BALANCE BETWEEN WHAT
FAMILIES CAN PAY AND WHAT
CAREGIVERS NEED TO MAKE.
>> LIKE EVERYTHING ELSE IF YOU
HAVE TO PAY MORE TO PRODUCE
SOMETHING, AND IN THIS WE
PRODUCE A SERVICE, THEN SOMEBODY
HAS TO PAY FOR IT, AND WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN THEY CAN'T AFFORD
IT?
I THINK THAT'S OUR WORRY, IS
WHEN CLIENTS CAN'T AFFORD HOME
CARE ANYMORE, WHAT HAPPENS?
>> Reporter: KAREN KULP IN
PHILADELPHIA ECHOES THAT
CONCERN.
>> IT WOULD BE GREAT TO BE ABLE
TO PAY FOLKS THAT.
AGAIN, IT'S LIKE WHERE IS THAT
GOING TO COME FROM?
IS IT GOING TO COME FROM PRIVATE
PAYERS YOU KNOW WHERE PEOPLE WHO
EMPLOY SOMEBODY PRIVATELY
WILLING TO PAY THAT MUCH?
IS IT GOING TO COME FROM THE
GOVERNMENT?
IS IT GOING TO COME FROM
MEDICARE OR MEDICAID?
>> Reporter: BRIDGING THE GAP
BETWEEN LIVABLE WAGES AND
REASONABLY PRICED CARE IS THE
CHALLENGE FACING POLICY MAKERS,
AND FAMILIES WHO NEED
CAREGIVERS.
I'M KATHLEEN MLEERCCY REPORTING
FROM PHILADELPHIA FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: WE HAVE MORE
REPORTING FROM OUR SERIES,
INCLUDING OPTIONS ON HOW TO PAY
FOR LONG-TERM CARE.
THAT'S ON OUR HOMEPAGE,
pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: HOW MANY HOT BUTTONS
CAN THEY PUSH AT ONE TIME?
THE SENATE TURNS A CONFIRMATION
DEBATE INTO A STANDOFF OVER
HUMAN TRAFFICKING AND ABORTION.
AND, IN NEW HAMPSHIRE, TWO
LIKELY REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES TEST THE WATERS.
FOR MORE ON THE WEEK, THIS
POLITICS MONDAY, WE TURN TO AMY
WALTER OF THE "COOK POLITICAL
REPORT," AND TAMARA KEITH
OF NPR.
CAPITAL HILL, THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL'S NO, MA'AM NAYS,
LORETTA LYNCH, DESIGNATE'S
NOMINATION IS HELD UP NOT
BECAUSE OF IMMIGRATION FIGHTS OR
OTHER THINGS BUT IN THIS H CASE
BECAUSE OF A HUMAN TRAFFICKING
BILL THE DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBLICANS ACTUALLY AGREE
ABOUT?
>> THIS IS A RARE INSTANCE WHERE
DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS AGREE
ON BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION, AND
THEN DEMOCRATS CAME OUT A WEEK
AGO AND SAID SEEMS THERE'S AN
ABORTION PROVISION SNUCK IN HERE
BY REPUBLICANS.
REPUBLICANS SAY IT WASN'T SNUCK
IN HERE.
IT'S BEEN HERE ALL ALONG.
YOU ALL DIDN'T READ THE BILL AND
WE'RE BACK TO WHERE WE ALWAYS
ARE ON CAPITOL HILL WHICH IS
DEMOCRATS SAYING REPUBLICANS ARE
DOING BAD THINGS, REPUBLICANS
ARE SAYING DEMOCRATS ARE DOING
BAD THINGS AND THEN A STALEMATE,
DEMOCRATS SAYING WE'RE NOT
VOTING ON THIS.
REPUBLICANS SAYING, FINE, WE'LL
HOLD UP LORETTA LYNCH.
>> Ifill: I'VE NOTICED THE
PUSHBACK FROM HILLARY CLINTON
AND OTHERS IN PLANNED PARENTHOOD
IS THIS IS NOW A TRIPLE ATTACK
ON WOMEN AND THAT IS BY
ATTACHING THE HYDE ANTI-ABORTION
LANGUAGE BY HOLDING UP A HUMAN
TRAFFICKING BILL WHICH AFFECTS
WOMEN AND BY HOLDING UP THE
NOMINATION OF THE FIRST
AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMAN EVER
NOMINATED TO BE ATTORNEY GENERAL
BURKS THIS IS THE WAR IN
BUT I THINK WHAT REPS WOULD SAY
DISMS SHOULD JUST LET US VOTE ON
THIS HUMAN TRAFFICKING BILL.
THEY VOTED IT OUT OF COMMITTEE
UNANIMOUSLY.
LET'S JUST GET THIS OVER WITH
AND WE'LL MOVE ON TO LORETTA
LYNCH.
TRUTH BE TOLD, THERE IS NO
TECHCAL NIREASON THEY COULDN'T
DO BOTH THINGS AT THE SAME TIME.
>> Ifill: WAIT, THAT'S A
CONCEPT, DOING TWO THINGS AT
ONCE.
>> WALKING, CHEWING GUM...
THEY COULD ACTUALLY, TODAY, THE
SENATE VOTED ON A COUPLE OF NO,
MA'AMTATIONS AND VOTED THEM OUT.
IT'S NOT LIKE THEY CAN'T
TECHNICALLY DO IT.
IT BASICALLY IS NOW MITCH
McCONNELL SAYING I DO NOT WANT
TO MOVE ON TO LORETTA LYNCH
UNLESS --
>> Ifill: IT'S HIS LEVERAGE?
T'S HIS LEVERAGE BUT ALSO
SOME THOUGHT OUT THERE THE VOTE
COULD BE CLOSE ON LORETTA LYNCH.
REPUBLICANS ESPECIALLY ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT HER STANCE ON
THE PRESIDENT'S IMMIGRATION
ACTION AND OTHER SMALLER THINGS,
AND SO THERE IS SOME CONCERN IT
COULD BE REALLY CLOSE AND THAT
WOULD NOT LOOK GOOD FOR SENATE
REPS AND MITCH McCONNELL.
ACTUALLY, MITCH McCONNELL
HIMSELF HAS NOT YET SAID HOW HE
PLANS TO VOTE ON THE
LEGISLATION.
>> IT GOES BACK AS BOTH SIDES
PLAYING TO THE BASE.
DEMOCRATS ARE SAYING TO THEIR
BASE WHETHER ON WOMEN OR
ABORTION WE'RE STANDING UP FOR
YOU.
REPUBLICANS, LORETTA LYNCH HAS
BEEN ABOUT IMGREAT LAKES USING
HER VOTE AS AN OPPORTUNITY TO
SAY TO THEIR BASE DOESN'T LIKE
IMMIGRATION REFORM AND DOESN'T
LIKE WHAT THE PRESIDENT DID ON
IMMIGRATION AND WE'LL STAND UP
FOR YOU BY VOTING AGAINST
LORETTA A LYNCH.
WE'RE BACK TO THIS THEATER WHERE
WE'RE CONSTANTLY PLAYING AROUND.
SEEMS LIKE WE'RE VOTING ON ONE
THING BUT THIS IS A DEBATE ON
SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
>> SOMETHING DIFFERENT, 2016
CAMPAIGN.
THIS WEEKEND MARKED THE MAIDEN
VISIT TO NEW HAMPSHIRE IN 15
YEARS FOR JEB BUSH AND SCOTT
WALKER, THE GOVERNOR OF
WISCONSIN, BOTH OF THEM, DOES IT
MATTER?
WHAT ARE WE THINKING ABOUT JEB
BUSH IN NEW HAMPSHIRE SP.
>> HE WAS GOING TO NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN SOME WAY TO SAY I'M NOT GOING
TO ACTREICH I'M INEVITABLE.
MAYBE I HAVE ALL THE MONEY AND
PEOPLE LINED UP, BUT I'M NOT
GOING TO CAMPAIGN HERE -- HE WAS
BASICALLY GOING TO SAY I AM
GOING TO BE MORE LIKE JOHN
McCAIN THAN I'M GOING TO BE
LIKE MY BROTHER.
HE WENT TO A HOUSE PARTY AT A
FORMER NEW HAMPSHIRE REPUBLICAN
PARTY CHAIR'S HOUSE AND TOOK
QUESTIONS FOREVER FROM SMALL
CHILDREN, FROM ADULTS, THEN WE
WENT OUT IN THE DRIVEWAY AND
TOOK QUESTIONS FROM REPORTERS.
HE MADE HIMSELF VERY OPEN AND
ACCESSIBLE.
THIS ALSO PLAYS TO HIS STRENGTHS
BECAUSE HE DOESN'T DO BIG
SPEECHES AS WELL AS HE DOES
Q&As.
BUT HE WENT TO NEW HAMPSHIRE AND
SAID I'M GOING NEW HAMPSHIRE THE
NEW HAMPSHIRE WAY.
>> Ifill: HOW ABOUT SCOTT
WALKER?
>> SCOTT WALKER HAS A CHALLENGE
BECAUSE HE'S DOING WELL IN IOWA
BECAUSE THE ELECTORATE IN IOWA
IS THE KIND SCOTT WALKER WOULD
DO WELL WITH -- MORE
CONSERVATIVE, MIDWESTERN STATE,
HE'S FROM WISCONSIN.
THE QUESTION IS CAN HE DO
SOMETHING AFTER IOWA AND WE KNOW
NEW HAMPSHIRE IS THE NEXT STATE.
MORE MODERATE, INDEPENDENTS ARE
THERE, PLAY A BIG ROLE IN THE
PRIMARY PROCESS.
IFS WILL A PLACE TO STOP JEB
BUSH, IT WOULD BE IN
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
IF HE CAN WIN IOWA AND
NEW HAMPSHIRE, THAT WOULD BE A
BIG BLOW TO THE BUSH CAMPAIGN.
>> Ifill: TO THE DEMOCRATIC
SIDE OF THE LEDGER AND HILLARY
CLINTON E-MAILS WHICH WE'VE NOW
SEEN.
GRAIN OF SALT, BUT WE'VE SEEN A
POLL THIS AFTERNOON FROM CNN
THAT SHOWS SHE'S TAKING
SOMETHING OF A HIT.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S ABOUT THE
EMAIL OR JUST THE GENERAL IDEA
OF TRANSPARENCY.
HOW DO YOU READ THIS?
>> I READ THIS IS THIS IS A
PROBLEM ABOUT BEING DEMOCRATIC
NOMINEE FOR PRESIDENT WHEN
YOU'RE NOT THE DEMOCRATIC
NOMINEE FOR PRESIDENT.
SHE IS A CANDIDATE FOR THE
PRESIDENT WITHOUT ALL THE THINGS
THAT GO ALONG LIKE A CAMPAIGN
THAT CAN HELP YOU RESPOND TO.
THIS THERE IS A BIG VACUUM
AROUND HILLARY CLINTON AND
WHAT'S FILLING IT IS A LOT OF
NEGATIVE INFORMATION.
THAT'S WHAT VOTERS ARE GETTING.
AT THE SAME TIME, WHEN YOU LOOK
AT THE GUTS OF THIS POLL, WHAT
YOU FIND IS HOW PEOPLE FEEL
ABCLINTON AND
WHETHER OR NOT THE E-MAILS ARE
RELEVANT IS EXACTLY THE SAME WAY
THAT PEOPLE FELT BACK IN 1994
ABOUT WHETHER THE RELEVANT TO
WHETHER BILL CLINTON COULD DO
HIS JOB.
SO REALLY WE'RE BACK TO THIS
POLARIZED AMERICA THAT WE HAVE
BEEN IN QUITE SOME TIME WHICH IS
IF YOU LIKE THE CLINTONS, YOU
THINK THIS IS NOT A BIG DEAL.
IF YOU DON'T LIKE THEM, IT IS A
BIG DEAL.
>> Ifill: EVEN IF SHE TOOK A
HIT, SHE'S BETTER IN THE
POPULARITY POLLS THAN, SAY, THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
>> CERTAINLY.
AND I'VE TALKED TO A LOT OF
PEOPLE ON THE GROUND IN IOWA AND
NEW HAMPSHIRE AND IN TALKING TO
DEMOCRATS, THEY FEEL LIKE --
THEY WOULD LOVE FOR HER TO HAVE
A PRIMARY AND A LITTLE FIGHT.
THERE'S THIS IDEA --
>> Ifill: IT'S HAPPENED TOO
OFTEN.
>> YES, AND IT'S HARD TO RUN TOO
FAST UNLESS SOMEONE OR SOMETHING
IS CHASING YOU.
SO I THINK THEY WOULD LIKE HER
TO HAVE A LITTLE SOMETHING, BUT
THEY JUST AREN'T WORRIED ABOUT
THIS EMAIL THING.
I THINK IT IS A MUCH BIGGER DEAL
IN THIS BUBBLE WHERE WE EXIST
HERE IN THE WASHINGTON, D.C.
AREA --
>> Ifill: WE MAY NOT BE IN
TOUCH WITH WHAT'S HAPPENING --
>> THAT'S RIGHT BURKS WHAT DO WE
KNOW ABOUT WHEN YOU'RE AROUND A
TODDLER?
THE MOST DANGEROUS TIME WHEN
THEY'RE IN TROUBLE IS WHEN
THEY'RE HUNGRY, TIRED OR BORED.
SAME GOES WITH REPORTERS AND
THEY'RE VERY BORED NOW.
REPORTERS ARE BORED.
THERE'S NO PRIMARY AROUND
HILLARY CLINTON.
THERE'S NOTHING THERE.
>> Ifill: THAT SAID, THERE HAS
BEEN SO MUCH SCRUTINY NOW ASOMUN
WHAT SHE DID AND WHAT THEY HAVE
DONE THAT THERE HAS TO BE SOME
PRESSURE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
ND I THINK THERE IS -- YEAH,
I THINK THAT COMING FROM HER
PEOPLE, THERE'S A FEELING LIKE
SHE'S HELD TO A DIFFERENT
STANDARD THAN EVERYONE ELSE.
JEB BUSH HAS EMAIL ISSUES,
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS DON'T EVEN
HAVE TO SAVE THEIR E-MAILS, YET
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HILLARY
CLINTON AND FOREVER WE'LL BE
TALKING ABOUT HILLARY CLINTON.
>> Ifill: OH, THANK YOU.
THAT'S SOMETHING TO LOOK FORWARD
TO FOR THE NEXT YEAR OR SO.
TAMARA KEITH FROM N.
P.R. AND AMY
WALTER FROM THE POLITICAL
REPORT.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
MARCH MADNESS HAS ARRIVED ONCE
AGAIN AND THIS YEAR THERE'S A
TWIST: THE UNIVERSITY OF
KENTUCKY IS MAKING A RUN FOR A
HISTORIC AND UNDEFEATED SEASON.
THE MEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM IS 34
AND 0, AND FRESH OFF WINNING THE
S.E.C. CHAMPIONSHIP ON SUNDAY
NIGHT.
KENTUCKY COMES IN AS A FAVORITE
IN A TOUAMENRNT THAT OFTEN
SHOWCASES CINDERELLA STORIES.
IN AN ERA OF PARITY FOR THE
GAME, KENTUCKY'S BECOME KNOWN
FOR THEIR TALENT, THEIR COACH
JOHN CALIPARI, AND WHETHER HIS
PLAYERS LEAVE SCHOOL FAR TOO
EASILY AND TOO QUICKLY.
JOHN FEINSTEIN OF THE
"WASHINGTON POST" JOINS ME NOW.
WELCOME BACK TO THE PROGRAM.
>> GOOD TO BE HERE.
>> Woodruff: HOW RARE IS IT
FOR A SCHOOL TO GO UNDEFEATED
INTO THE FINAL FOUR.
>> RARE.
THE LAST TIME WAS NEVADA,
LAS VEGAS, 1991 AND THEY LOST TO
DUKE IN THE NATIONAL SEMIFINAL.
HOWEVER, PEOPLE SEEM TO FORGET
THAT LAST YEAR WICHITA STATE WAS
34 AND 0 GOING INTO THE
TOURNAMENT BUT BECAUSE THEY
AREN'T KENTUCKY, ALL CAPITAL
LETTERS, THEY DIDN'T GET AS MUCH
ATTENTION AND GLANDER FOR BEING
UNDEFEATED AND BEATEN IN THE
SECOND ROUND BY KENTUCKY.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU
EXPLAIN KENCKY'TUS SUCCESS THIS
YEAR?
>> JOHN DID NOT INVENT THE
SO-CALLED ONE-AND-DONE RULE,
JOHN CALIPARI, BUT HE'S
PERFECTED IT.
THE WAY HE RECRUITS IS HE SAYS
YOU MUST GO TO COLLEGE BY RULE
FOR AT LEAST A YEAR.
I WILL PREPARE YOU BETTER THAN
ANYBODY FOR THE N.B.A. TO BE A
FIRST-ROUND DRAFT PICK AND WHEN
HE RECRUITS THE PLAYERS HE CAN
TELL THE -- GUYS AHEAD OF HIM
THEY WILL BE GONE TO THE N.B.A.
AND THERE WILL BE SPOTS OEN FPOR
YOU TO PLAY RIGHT AWAY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT'S THE
ARGUMENT ABOUT SUPPORTING
STUDENT ATHLETES VS.
ONE-AND-DONE?
>> STUDENT ATHLETE TO ME IS BOTH
A REDUNDANCY.
YOU HAVE TO BE THE A STUDENT IN
ORDER TO BE A COLLEGE ATHLETE
AND THERE'S A LOT OF HYPOCRISY
IN IT BECAUSE SO MANY OF THE
PLAYERS AT THE BIG TIME SCHOOL
WON'T COME CLOSE TO GRADUATING.
THE ONE AND ONE IS A POCKS ON
COLLEGE BASKETBALL AND I SAY
THAT AS SOMEONE WHO SUPPORTED IT
WHEN IT CAME IN BECAUSE I FELT
ONE YEAR OF COLLEGE WAS BETTER
THAN NONE.
NOW I FEEL THE OPPOSITE.
IF YOU DON'T WANT TO GO AND
YOU'RE GOOD ENOUGH TO GO
STRAIGHT TO THE NARKS YOU SHOULD
BE ALLOWED TO DO THAT.
THAT'S GOING TO BE YOUR
PROFESSION, YOU'RE TRAINED AND
READY TO DO IT AND REASON PAID
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS FOR THAT.
TO GO TO COLLEGE AND PRETEND TO
BE A STUDENT FOR A YEAR --
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT THEY'RE
DOING.
GO TO CUP OF CLASSES FIRST
SEMESTER, STAY ELIGIBLE, AND
WHEN THEY GO TO THE LAST GAME
THEY PREPARE FOR THE KNAPP DRAFT
AND DON'T FINISH COLLEGE.
>> Woodruff: COACH CALIPARI
SAYS HE THINKS GOING ON IS A
GOOD IDEA.
>IDEA.
HE HAS TWO SOPHOMORE GUARDS
WHO WEREN'T GOING TO GO HIGH IN
THE DRAFT AS HE THOUGHT SO JOHN,
WHO IS VERY GOOD AT MANIPULATING
WORDS, IS SAYING WELL, I THINK
IT'S OKAYF I THEY COME BACK FOR
ANOTHER YEAR BECAUSE HE DOESN'T
WANT THE PLAYERS TO FEEL
HUMILIATED BY THE FACT THEY WERE
"FORCED TO STAY IN COLLEGE AN
EXTRA YEAR OR TWO."
>> Woodruff: SO GOING INTO
THIS TOWRNTLE I CALLED IT THE
FINAL FOUR, I MEAN THE HOLE
TOURNAMENT.
>> RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT SHAPE IS
KENTUCKY IN?
>> IF IT WAS BEST FOUR OF SEVEN
LIKE THE N.B.A., I DON'T THINK
ANYBODY COULD BEAT KENTUCKY.
BUT FO ONER NIGHT SOMEBODY COULD
GET FOUL TROUBLE, TURN AN ANKLE,
GET HOT FROM THE THREEPT LINE,
YOU CAN LOSE.
THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED IN $91 WHEN
DUKE BEAT LAS VEGAS.
SO THEY'RE NOT A SHOE-IN.
THEY ARE THE BEST TEAM,
UNDEFEATED, GO TEN PLAYERS DEEP,
HUGE, GUARDS SIX-FOOT-SIX AND
SIX-FOOT-SIX.
UNHEARD OF.
THEY WILL BE DIFFICULT TO BEAT.
PEOPLE EXPECT THEM TO FINISH
UNDEFEATED, WILL BE THE FIRST
SINCE INDIANA DID IT IN 1976,
BUT UH IF THEY LOSE, IT WON'T BE
COMPLETELY SHOCKING.
>> Woodruff: WHO ELSE DO YOU
LIKE?
THE OTHER CINDERELLA TEAMS?
>> IF YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
BEATING KENTUCKY, IT'S NOT GOING
TO BE A CINDERELLA TEAM.
IT WON'T BE A LOW SEED THAT WINS
A GAME OR WOO AND KIDS TO THE
SWEET 16.
ARIZONA IS THE BEST TEAM.
THEY WOULD BOTH PLAY KENTUCKY IF
ADVANCED IN THE SEMIFINALS.
THEY HAVE THE BEST BUILT TEAM TO
BEAT KENTUCKY.
YOUR ALMA MATER, MY ALMA MATER
DUKE COULD HAVE A GREAT SHOOTING
NIGHT IF THEY PLAY DEFENSE.
WISCONSIN IS AN EXPERIENCED
TEAM.
THOSE ARE THE ONES THAT COME TO
MIND.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU SEE THIS
AS A WIDE-OPEN TOURNAMENT?
BECAUSE ALREADY A LOT OF PEOPLE
TRYING TO DECIDE THEIR
NON-MONETARY BETS.
>> THE FIRST TWO WEEKENDS ARE
ALWAYS WIDE OPEN.
THERE WILL BE UPSETS BY LOW
SEEDS.
WHEN WE GET TO THE FINAL FOUR IN
THREE WEEKENDS, IT'S GOING TO BE
BIG TIME TEAMS PLAYING.
VERY RARELY YOU GET WHERE GEORGE
MASON OR BUTLER THERE, BUT MOST
THE TIME IT'S THE BIG TIME
SCHOOLS THE LAST WEEKEND AND I
EXPECT KENTUCKY TO BE THERE AND
INDIANAPOLIS.
>> Woodruff: ARE YOU PICKING
SOMEBODY?
>> I ALWAYS TRY TO PICK AN
UNDERDOG.
I'VE ALREADY GONE ON RECORD
PICKING MARYLAND TO BEAT
KENTUCKY IN THE SWEET 16 AND I'M
SURE THAT WILL MAKE ME VERY
OPAR IN THE STATE OF KENTUCKY
BUT YOU'VE GOT TO PICK SOMEBODY
WHO'S NOT OBVIOUS.
>> Woodruff: YOU'VE ALWAYS
BEEN A MAN OF COURAGE.
>> OR SILLINESS.
>> Woodruff: JOHN FEINSTEIN,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANKS, JUDY.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
WALL STREET OPENED THE WEEK WITH
A RALLY.
THE DOW GAINED NEARLY 230
POINTS.
THIS WAS ELECTION EVE IN ISRAEL,
AND PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU APPEALED TO HARD-
LINERS BY VOWING THERE WL BEIL
NO PALESTINIAN STATE-- IF HE'S
RE-ELECTED.
AND, THE UNITED STATES AND IRAN
HELD ANOTHER FIVE HOURS OF
NUCLEAR TALKS.
A DEADLINE FOR A FRAMEWORK
AGREEMENT IS NOW TWO WEEKS AWAY.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE: THE NINE-SECOND VIDEO
FEATURING MEMBERS OF A
UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA
FRATERNITY SINGING A RACIST
CHANT HAS SPARKED ANGER AND
DISBELIEF, ESPECIALLY AMONG
MILLENNIALS, A GENERATION
SUPPOSEDLY MORE TOLERANT THAN
THEIR PARENTS.
WE ASKED YOUNG PEOPLE FROM
CAMPUSES ACROSS THE COUNTRY,
PART OF OUR "STUDENT REPORTING
LABS" NETWORK, TO RESPOND IN
THEIR OWN WORDS.
>> IT AMAZES ME THAT THAT KIND
OF RACISM IN THIS MILLENNIAL AGE
ACTUALLY STILL EXISTS.
THAT THAT CLOSE-MINDEDNESS IS
EVEN STILL AN OPTION.
>> LIKE, YOU'RE NOT BORN RACIST.
CLEARLY, YOU'RE LIKE RAISED TO
HAVE THAT OPINION.
AND THE FACT THAT PEOPLE LIKE
TEACH THEIR KIDS THAT, IT'S JUST
NOT RIGHT.
>> I'M ALWAYS EXPECTING THINGS
TO GO WRONG.
AND I'M ALWAYS EXPECTING PEOPLE
TO-- TO  ACT LIKE HOW THEY
REALLY FEEL.
YOU KNOW?
WHEN THEY'RE, WHEN THEY'RE
AROUND THEIR OWN ENVIRONMENT
WITH PEOPLE THEY'RE COMFORTABLE
WITH.
THEY'RE ALWAYS GOING TO SHOW THE
EMOTIONS THAT THEY'RE REALLY
HIDING.
>> WHEN I FIRST SEEN THE VIDEO,
I WAS JUST SURPRISED AT HOW
COMFORTABLE THE FRATERNITY WAS
SAYING WHAT THEY WERE SAYING.
AND HOW EVERYONE WAS
CONTRIBUTING AND HOW COMFORTABLE
THEY WERE.
>> AS A COUNTRY, WE SHOULD'VE
MOVED PAST THAT AND LEFT IT
BEHIND, BUT IT'S STILL BEING
SHOWN IN PRESENT DAY AND I THINK
THAT'S DISGUSTING.
>> I KNOW FRATERNITIES YOU KNOW
ARE NOT FAMOUS FOR DOING EXACTLY
SMART THINGS IN MOVIE AND REAL
LIFE, BUT SOMETHING LIKE THIS
KIND OF CROSSES THE LINE AND
IT'S REALLY KIND OF
HEARTBREAKING THAT SOMETHING
THIS CAN STILL EXIST.
>> I WAS HONESTLY KIND OF
CONFUSED WHAT THE MOTIVATION WAS
FOR DOING THE CHANT.
WAS IT TRADITION OR MAYBE
THEY'RE JUST STUPID?
LIKE, IF IT'S TRADITION, IT
ST
THAT TRADITION WOULD SURVIVE.
YOU CAN WATCH MORE ON THESE
STUDENTS.
WE ARE HOST AGO TWITTER CHAT
TOMORROW AFTERNOON AT
1:00 EASTERN ON THE CHANGING
ATTITUDES ON RACE AND CULTURE IN
AMERICA, PART OF A SERIES WE'RE
CALLING "RACE TODAY."
YOU CAN FIND THE DETAILS OF THE
CHAT OPEN OUR HOME PAGE,
pbs.org/NewsHour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WHY STUDENTS AND
PARENTS SHOULDN'T STRESS OUT
OVER COLLEGE ADMISSIONS.
I'M GWENFILL I.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.